---
title: "Use Tax Charges on Job Requisitions | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/spectrum/spectrum/materials/inventory-control/procedures-overview/in-depth-overview/use-tax-charges-on-job-requisitions"
fetched_at: "2026-04-03T20:47:47.926179+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/spectrum/spectrum/materials/inventory-control/procedures-overview/in-depth-overview/use-tax-charges-on-job-requisitions"
---

# Use Tax Charges on Job Requisitions

Spectrum permits "use tax" to be accrued for inventory items requisitioned to jobs. When items are requisitioned from Inventory Control to a job, use tax can be included. In Job Requisition Entry, there are prompts in the line item detail for a use code and taxable prompt. If the Utilize tax classification checkbox is selected on the Job Cost Installation screen, job requisitions will perform the same use tax classification routine as items purchased directly to the job. The tax code will default based on the job's tax class code when specified. Otherwise, if the tax code is blank or not in use, the code will then default from the Warehouse File Maintenance. The checkbox defaults from Inventory Item File Maintenance.
The accrued amount of use tax is not calculated when the job requisition is entered. Instead, at the time the transaction is updated, the actual use tax amount will be calculated using the current use tax rate and the actual unit cost of the line item. The use tax is calculated on the actual item unit cost before any markup percent. The actual cost is used to calculate use tax, even if the Transfer job costs with actual costs checkbox in the Inventory Control Installation screen is clear.
In terms of General Ledger, the use tax amount will be applied (credit) to the general ledger account specified in the Accounts Payable Use Tax Code Maintenance, and the expense will be included with the material charged (debit) to the expense account specified on that line of the job requisition.
When items are returned to the warehouse in Inventory Control by means of a negative job requisition, the use tax will be recalculated based on the received cost. This would generally be the standard cost, but could be overwritten by the operator in the Job Requisition Entry screen, if applicable.
With the change in Inventory Control to optionally calculate use tax on requisition, the Tax Classification File Maintenance screen includes a field for the use tax code to be used for job requisitions and a window for specifying tax override exemptions, modeled after the A/P exemptions. When Purchase Orders and A/P invoices are processed for material purchased directly to jobs, use tax information flows from the A/P tax code fields. When material is requisitioned through Inventory Control, the transactions are taxed based on the job requisition fields.
A convenient update is provided on the Job Cost Error Recovery Menu in the Admin Utilities list entitled Copy JC tax class AP exemptions. It is designed to facilitate setup of the use tax classifications for Job Requisitions if the contractor has already performed the use tax setup for Accounts Payable and the same taxation applies to both. This special update will read the Job Cost tax classification file and copy the A/P tax code and phase exemption information into the corresponding fields for Job Requisition tax code and exemptions.
When updating scale tickets to Inventory Control job requisitions, the Scale Ticket Update defaults any applicable use tax into the Job Requisition Entry. The use tax code and taxable prompt will be set in a manner consistent with how the use tax would default if the transaction has been added directly into the Job Requisition Entry screen.
The Accounts Payable Use Tax Report has been modified to include an option for generating the report from A/P invoices, Job requisitions, or Both sources. Use tax from requisitions will appear on the Summary Use Tax Report summarized by requisition number. The Detail Use Tax Report will present each taxable line item from the requisition.
Within Inventory Control, use tax information can be viewed in the Job Requisition Inquiry and the Inventory History Inquiry screens. In addition, the Inventory History Report and the Job Requisition Report include the use tax code and amount on the report.
