---
title: "Field Definitions: IM Auto Import Profile Setup | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/administration/imports/setup-and-maintenance/about-the-im-auto-import-profile-setup-form/field-definitions-im-auto-import-profile-setup"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/administration/imports/setup-and-maintenance/about-the-im-auto-import-profile-setup-form/field-definitions-im-auto-import-profile-setup"
---

# Field Definitions: IM Auto Import Profile Setup

The following is a list of field descriptions for the IM Auto
 Import Profile Setup form. Many of the descriptions include links to other topics that provide additional information about or related to the topic.

## Archive Directory

Enter a directory location where the system
 will store a copy of the original file after the import process is complete.
Note: The system deletes the original file from the pickup directory after the import process is over. While entry in this field is optional, Viewpoint recommends specifying a directory, so that you can maintain a copy of the original file.

## Auto Import Profile

Enter the ID for the auto import profile you are creating, up to 20 characters. Press F4 to view a list of previously created profiles.

## Default Company

(Optional) Enter a company that the system should import data into. This field is not required for the import process.

## Description

Enter a description for this auto import profile. You can enter up to 30 characters in this field.

## Description

Enter a description for this auto import profile. You can enter up to 30 characters in this field.

## Error Directory

Enter a directory location where the system
 can store the original file in case of an import error.
Note: Because the system deletes the original file from the pickup directory, Viewpoint recommends specifying an error directory where Vista can place the file in the event that an error occurs.

## Log Directory

Enter a directory location where the system
 stores log files generated by the import process.

## Pickup Directory

Enter the directory location where the system
 will locate files for importing.
Note: The system deletes the file out of this directory once the import process is complete.

## Template

Enter an import template in the field. This template indicates which import template the system will use during the import process. Press F4 to see a list of valid import templates.
