---
title: "Update Physical Inventory | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/spectrum/spectrum/materials/inventory-control/spectrum-menus-overview/data-entry-overview/physical-inventory-processing/update-physical-inventory"
fetched_at: "2026-04-03T20:47:47.926179+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/spectrum/spectrum/materials/inventory-control/spectrum-menus-overview/data-entry-overview/physical-inventory-processing/update-physical-inventory"
---

# Update Physical Inventory

This update will change the Inventory Item maintenance
 screen to reflect the physical counts and creates inventory adjustment entries for all items
 entered that had a variance between the on-hand quantity and the physical count.
This selection is only available for use when a physical inventory is in progress, previously initiated using Set Physical Inventory Status.
This screen is used as a shortcut to adjustment entry. The two screens that appear during this update correspond with the Inventory Adjustments Entry and Inventory Transaction Update. This update automatically creates adjustment entries in these screens.
Important: Your Inventory
 Control current processing date is now set to the date you wish this physical inventory to
 be updated to. For example, if you are updating on 10/2/xx but wish to post the update
 effective 9/30/xx, it's vital to change the Current date to 9/30/xx in the Processing Date
 Change screen. The date change must be performed before you begin this update.
Field
Description

Batch code
Enter the unposted inventory batch code in this field. The current operator code will default in this field, but can be changed. It is OK to assign the same batch code across entry screens.

Transaction date
This field will default to the current Inventory Control processing date, but can be changed to any date within the current minimum/maximum date range. The specified date will be assigned to unposted transactions generated by this update.
