---
title: "Inventory Transaction Report / Update - Cost Center Information | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/spectrum/spectrum/materials/inventory-control/spectrum-menus-overview/data-entry-overview/inventory-transaction-report--update/inventory-transaction-report--update---cost-center-information"
fetched_at: "2026-04-03T20:47:47.926179+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/spectrum/spectrum/materials/inventory-control/spectrum-menus-overview/data-entry-overview/inventory-transaction-report--update/inventory-transaction-report--update---cost-center-information"
---

# Inventory Transaction Report / Update - Cost Center Information

If the cost center feature is enabled in the Enterprise Installation screen, Spectrum will use the warehouse cost center when posting to General Ledger. If no cost center has been set up for the warehouse, then the transaction will appear on the exception listing and will require that the cost center be entered. The exception listing will also display records for any equipment transactions with an equipment cost center assignment that does not exist or is inactive. Spectrum assigns the cost center to equipment adjustment transactions first based on the cost category cost center, if applicable; otherwise, it assigns the cost center of the equipment.
Spectrum will also assign the cost center inter-posting and inter-company accounts from Inventory Control Installation when posting transactions that hit the G/L with the debit and credit in different cost centers. Spectrum will also check for overrides used will use the override G/L account specified for the inter-posting account, if applicable (so your interposting accounts will appear out-of-balance on the G/L Error Correction Log for the cost center specified). For job requisitions with a job cost center that is different from the warehouse cost center, transfers between warehouses with different cost centers, adjustments with an equipment in a different cost center entered, and mix assemblies with header cost center different from the detail cost center, the inter-posting accounts will be used.
When using multi-company processing, the software reads the company code of the detail line, and then determines if that company code has been assigned a particular inter-company G/L account. For entries in the requisition company, the Inventory Control Installation setup of the requisition company is used, and for the entries to the company referenced in the detail, the Inventory Control Installation setup of that other company is applied.
The Inventory G/L Summary Report (printed during the update) will be modified to include a Cost center column between the G/L description and debit amount. The cost center description will not display on the report.
