---
title: "Create an Auto Import Profile - on-premises | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/administration/imports/setup-and-maintenance/about-importing-files-automatically/create-an-auto-import-profile---on-premises"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/administration/imports/setup-and-maintenance/about-importing-files-automatically/create-an-auto-import-profile---on-premises"
---

# Create an Auto Import Profile - on-premises

​Vista can run automatic imports for you. Use the IM Auto Import Profile Setup form to set up a profile that the system will refer to when automatically importing files into the database from network directories that you specify.
Note: Your company's Vista deployment method affects which actions you should take on this page. Your deployment method is shown at the bottom of the Main Menu in the status bar.
Prior to creating an auto import profile, you must:

- know which import template you want to use. For more information, see [About the IM Template Form](/en/vista/vista/administration/imports/setup-and-maintenance/about-the-im-template-form).

- create the directory locations so that you can select them as instructed in this task.Note: Consult your system administrator if you have questions or for assistance setting up these network file storage locations.

To create an auto import profile using the IM Auto Import Profile Setup form:

1. In the Auto Import Profile field, enter a name for the profile. For reference, you may press F4 to view a list of previously created profiles.

1. In the Description field, enter the profile's description.

1. In the Template field, press F4 to select from a list of import templates.

1. (Optional) In the Default Company field, enter the company that the system should import data into.

1. Enter the directory locations to guide the system's import actions.Your deployment method dictates what action you should take related to the directories:
Deployment methodRequired Action
LAN, RDP, *or*
 legacy cloudEnter the directory locations on the network.
Either LAN *or* VRL on-premisesAll entries must be subdirectories of the directories defined in the API Settings tab of the Viewpoint Configuration form located on your app server. If you don't know what's been defined, ask your system administrator.
VRL on-premises *only*Skip this step. Do not make a selection or enter anything.

DirectoryPurpose
PickupNote: Each import profile that you create must have its own, unique pickup directory.
Where the system retrieves files for importing at fixed intervals you defined in the Viewpoint Configuration form. The system removes the original file from the pickup directory when the import process begins.
ArchiveWhere the system places a copy of the original file for storage after the import process completes.
ErrorWhere the system preserves the original file if there is an import error.
LogWhere the system stores log files generated by the import process.

1. Click Save.

This import profile is now ready for use by the automatic imports process.
You can either save files to the network drive or configure your 3rd-party tool(s) to place the files in the network drive.For Vista to perform an automatic import, you must also enable your server to process automatic imports. For more information, see [Server Setup for Automatic Imports: On-premises](/en/vista/vista/administration/imports/setup-and-maintenance/about-importing-files-automatically/server-setup-for-automatic-imports-on-premises).

Related information

- [About Importing Files Automatically](/en/vista/vista/administration/imports/setup-and-maintenance/about-importing-files-automatically)
