---
title: "Create an Auto Import Profile - VRL Cloud | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/administration/imports/setup-and-maintenance/about-importing-files-automatically/create-an-auto-import-profile---vrl-cloud"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/administration/imports/setup-and-maintenance/about-importing-files-automatically/create-an-auto-import-profile---vrl-cloud"
---

# Create an Auto Import Profile - VRL Cloud

​Vista can run automatic imports for you. Use the IM Auto Import Profile Setup form to set up a profile that the system will refer to when automatically importing files into the database from network directories that you specify.
Note: Your company's Vista deployment method affects which actions you should take on this page. Your deployment method is shown at the bottom of the Main Menu in the status bar.
Prior to creating an auto import profile, you must:

- know which import template you want to use. For more information, see [About the IM Template Form](/en/vista/vista/administration/imports/setup-and-maintenance/about-the-im-template-form).

- Obtain your company's Vista Repository server name from your company's cloud administrator, that is, the person that created your cloud user record in the Cloud Workspace. The server name has a suffix of D1, that is, <yourcompanyD1>.

To create an auto import profile using the IM Auto Import Profile Setup form:

1. In the Auto Import Profile field, enter a name for the profile. Press F4 to view a list of previously created profiles.

1. In the Description field, enter the profile's description.

1. In the Template field, press F4 to select from a list of already-existing import templates.

1. (Optional) In the Default Company field, enter the company that the system should import data into.

1. Create the Directory paths by stringing these values together:

- your Vista Repository server name

- the bulk imports directory

- the auto import profile name you entered in step 1, and

- the directory type as shown in the following examples.

1. In the Pickup Directory field, create the following entry:\\<yourcompanyD1>\Viewpoint Repository\Bulk Imports\<auto import profile name>\Pickup

1. In the Archive Directory field, create the following entry:\\<yourcompanyD1>\Viewpoint Repository\Bulk Imports\<auto import profile name>\Archive

1. In the Error Directory field, create the following entry:\\<yourcompanyD1>\Viewpoint Repository\Bulk Imports\<auto import profile name>\Error

1. In the Logs Directory field, create the following entry:\\<yourcompanyD1>\Viewpoint Repository\Bulk Imports\<auto import profile name>\Logs

DirectoryPurpose
PickupNote: Each import profile that you create must have its own, unique pickup directory.
Where the system retrieves files for importing at fixed intervals you defined in the Viewpoint Configuration form. The system removes the original file from the pickup directory when the import process begins.
ArchiveWhere the system places a copy of the original file for storage after the import process completes.
ErrorWhere the system preserves the original file if there is an import error.
LogWhere the system stores log files generated by the import process.

1. Click Save.

This import profile is now ready for use by the automatic imports process.
You can either

- save files to the mapped network drive, or

- configure your 3rd-party tool(s) to place the files in the mapped network drive automatically. This option requires use of a VPN connection. For information about VPN, see [About VPN Use for VRL Cloud Users](/en/vista/vista/cloud-deployment/about-vrl-cloud/about-vpn-use-for-vrl-cloud-users).

For Vista to perform an automatic import, you must also enable your server to process automatic imports. For more information, see [Configure Automated Document Upload for
 Imports - VRL Cloud](/en/vista/vista/administration/imports/setup-and-maintenance/about-importing-files-automatically/configure-automated-document-upload-for-imports---vrl-cloud).
