---
title: "Reclassify Job Cost History - Cost Center Information | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/spectrum/spectrum/project-management/job-cost/spectrum-menus/data-entry-overview/reclassify-job-cost-history/reclassify-job-cost-history---cost-center-information"
fetched_at: "2026-04-03T20:05:26.860879+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/spectrum/spectrum/project-management/job-cost/spectrum-menus/data-entry-overview/reclassify-job-cost-history/reclassify-job-cost-history---cost-center-information"
---

# Reclassify Job Cost History - Cost Center Information

If the cost center feature is enabled in the Enterprise Installation screen, then at the Debit G/L code and Credit G/L code fields on the J/C History Reclassification screen, Spectrum verifies that you have authorization to access these G/L accounts. Spectrum compares the G/L account's list of shared cost centers with cost centers in your assigned scheme; if there are no common cost centers, then that G/L account code is not allowed.
A Cost group field displays beneath the Transaction ref#2 field. When a cost group is specified, then the report only shows jobs assigned to cost centers in the specified group. Enter a cost group or cost center to include in the report. Spectrum also prompts for the credit cost center to default onto transaction detail lines. When you specify a cost center on the starting screen, Spectrum verifies that you have permission to access that cost center before proceeding.
In the detail portion of the screen, when entering history reclassification information, Spectrum allows transaction entry for the job only if you have permission to access the job' s information. As you request each job, Spectrum compares the cost center assigned to the job with cost centers in your assigned scheme; if the cost centers is not included, then entries for that job will not be allowed. In addition, Spectrum compares the cost center assigned to each phase, if applicable, with cost centers in your assigned scheme; if the cost center is not included, then that phase cannot be recorded. Transactions for disallowed jobs and phases will not display for editing.
When your scheme includes override settings for job entries in Cost Center Scheme Maintenance, the JC History Reclassification screen will validate the cost center assigned to transaction detail lines based on these overrides. The override cost center(s) supersede the cost center list defined for the scheme in general. Spectrum will compare the cost center assigned in the entry screen detail with job override cost centers in your assigned scheme; if the cost center is not included, then the transaction entry line will not be allowed.
As each transaction line is edited, at the Debit G/L code field, Spectrum displays the cost center assigned to the job (or phase, if applicable). The cost center is assigned automatically and you cannot change it. In Add mode, Spectrum will verify that the debit cost center assigned to the transaction entry line is permitted for that G/L account code by comparing the entry to the list of allowed cost centers for that G/L account. Validation is also performed if you attempt to change the debit G/L account. Spectrum also compares the debit G/L account's list of shared cost centers with cost centers in your assigned scheme; if there are no common cost centers, then editing that G/L account code is not allowed.
As each transaction line is edited, at the Credit G/L code field, Spectrum defaults the cost center assigned on the starting screen and permits you to override the entry. Spectrum will verify that the credit cost center assigned to the transaction entry line is permitted for that G/L account code by comparing the entry to the list of allowed cost centers for that G/L account. Validation is also performed if you attempt to change the credit G/L account or cost center. Spectrum also compares the credit G/L account's list of shared cost centers with cost centers in your assigned scheme; if there are no common cost centers, then that G/L account code is not permitted.
