---
title: "Field Definitions: PR Timesheet Send Form | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/hr-and-payroll/payroll/time-entry/timesheets/about-the-pr-timesheet-send-form/field-definitions-pr-timesheet-send-form"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/hr-and-payroll/payroll/time-entry/timesheets/about-the-pr-timesheet-send-form/field-definitions-pr-timesheet-send-form"
---

# Field Definitions: PR Timesheet Send Form

The following is a list of field descriptions for the PR
 Timesheet Send form. Many of the descriptions include links to other topics that provide additional information about or related to the topic.

##  PR Group

 Required.
 Specify the PR group for which to send timesheets.

##  Select Job

 Check this box to populate the grid with timesheets for a specific company and job (specified to the right).
 Do not check this box if you want to display all timesheets, regardless of company and job.

##  JC Co

 Enabled when "Select Job" option is checked.
 Specify the JC company by which to restrict timesheet selection. Only timesheets posted to this JC company will display in the grid below.

## Job

The system enables this field when you select the Select Job checkbox.
Specify the job by which to restrict timesheet selection. Only timesheets posted to this job (for the specified JC company) display in the grid below. If left blank, all timesheets posted to the JC company specified to the left display, regardless of job.
Note: If you enter a soft or hard-closed job, the status displays in red above this field. The system will only send records if you allow posting to soft or hard-closed jobs (flags in JC Company Parameters).

##  Include Timesheets Through Timecard Date

 Specify the timecard date through which to include timesheets. Only timesheets with a timecard date that falls on or before this date display in the grid below. Default is today's date.

##  PR Ending Date

 Specify a valid pay period ending date to which to send the timesheets. This date is used when creating the Payroll batch and determines the PR, JC, and EM batch months.

##  PR Pay Seq

 Specify a valid pay sequence (for the pay period) to which this non-job earnings will be posted in the timecard batch. Defaults to the first pay sequence set up for the pay period.

##  PR Batch

 Check this box if you want the payroll timecard batch generated by the send process to be restricted. If yes, the Restricted Access option is checked for the timecard batch and only the user who created the batch will have access.

##  JC Batch

 Check this box if you want the job cost progress batch generated by the send process to be restricted. If yes, the Restricted Access option is checked for the JC batch, and only the user who created the batch will have access.

##  EM Batch

 Check this box if you want the equipment usage batch generated by the send process to be restricted. If yes, the Restricted Access option is checked for the EM batch, and only the user who created the batch will have access.

## Notes

Use this tab to enter any miscellaneous notes about this item. The space allowance is virtually unlimited.
Spelling Check
 Click the Spelling icon on the toolbar or
 select Tools > Spelling
  to spell check the text in this field.
Add a Standard Note
Standard notes allow you to insert frequently used text into some fields in the application. This text is created and maintained using the [HQ Standard Note](/en/vista/vista/administration/headquarters/standard-notes/about-the-hq-standard-note-form) form.
To insert a standard note into the field,
 right click the mouse while focus is in the field and select Standard Notes
 from the shortcut menu, which opens the Standard Note Copy window. Then enter the standard
 note to copy (or select from F4 lookup) and click OK. The system inserts the selected note
 into the field.

## My Timesheets: PR Group

Enter the payroll group associated with the timesheets that you want to send to a PR timecard batch. Press F4 for a list of payroll groups.

## My Timesheets: Include Timesheets through Start Date

Enter a date for limiting timesheets that you want to send to a PR timecard batch. If you do not enter a date in this field, all approved timesheets for the specified group that are ready to be sent will appear in the grid.

## My Timesheets: PR Ending Date

Enter the payroll ending date that the timesheets should be associated with when the system creates a payroll timecard batch.

## My Timesheets: PR Pay Seq

Enter the payroll pay sequence that the timesheets should be associated with when the system creates a payroll timecard batch.

## My Timesheets: Restricted Access

Check this box if you want access to the created payroll batches to be limited to your system login.
