---
title: "Work Flow | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow"
---

# Work Flow

The Workflow module provides workflow process capabilities, from defining and implementing review/approval workflows to setting up checklists of tasks and implementing automated email notifications.

## Process Workflows

Process Workflows force documents that meet a defined criteria to follow a specific approval/review process. For example, if all PO items for a job that are greater than $25,000 need to be reviewed by the project manager before they can be sent to accounting, you can create a Process Workflow in the application so that the system enforces this approval process. For more information about the workflow process, see [Review/Approval Process Workflow](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/reviewapproval-process-workflow).

## Checklists

A checklist is a list of tasks that need to be performed to complete a workflow. For example, you can set up a checklist containing the tasks necessary to complete a Month-End Accounts Payable log. You can customize the tasks in a checklist and assign them to specific users, giving users a way to see what tasks they need to perform. Checklists also provide administrators/managers a way to control how a workflow is performed and allows them to review the current progress of specific workflows. For more information, see [Checklists](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/checklists).

## Notifier

Notifier handles the automated email notifications generated by the Process Workflow and Checklists features, and can be used to create your own notifications. For more information, see [ About Automated Notifications](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications).
