---
title: "Field Definitions: SL Worksheet Initialization Form | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/costs-and-contracts/subcontract-ledger/sl-worksheet/about-the-sl-worksheet-initialization-form/field-definitions-sl-worksheet-initialization-form"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/costs-and-contracts/subcontract-ledger/sl-worksheet/about-the-sl-worksheet-initialization-form/field-definitions-sl-worksheet-initialization-form"
---

# Field Definitions: SL Worksheet Initialization Form

The following is a list of field descriptions for the SL
 Worksheet Initialization form. Many of the descriptions include links to other topics that provide additional information about or related to the topic.

## AP Reference

The AP Reference number field on the SL Worksheet Initialization form.
Enter a vendor reference number that will easily identify this payment transaction, up to 30 characters. This can be any number, but is typically the invoice number. Also, consider using a combination of numbers, such as combining the job number and the payment control number. For example, if the job number is (1150-01- ) and the pay control number is (15), the AP reference number might be (1150-01-15). This field may be overridden.

## Bill Month

Specify the bill month (in JB) to initialize invoice amounts from for the specified range of subcontracts.

## CM Account

Enter the CM account for paying invoices generated by this worksheet. This field may be overridden.

## Description

Enter a description of this transaction, up to 30 characters. This description is updated to AP as the invoice transaction description. This field may be overridden by subcontract (Subcontracts section of worksheet).

## Due Date

Specify the date that invoices generated by this worksheet will be due for payment. If this field is left blank, the initialization generates due dates based on the vendor’s payment terms. This field may be overridden.

## Include all Subcontracts for the Selected Job(s)

Check this box to include all subcontracts for the selected job on the worksheet.
Do not check this box if you want to add specific subcontracts to the worksheet.

## Invoice Date

Enter an invoice date, or accept the current date default. This date will become the AP transaction invoice date and will be used in various AP reports.

## Job

Specify the job to begin the worksheet initialization with.

## Job

Specify the job to end the worksheet initialization with. The field defaults the Job that you entered in the Job field associated with the Beginning JC Co# field.

## Pay Control

Enter a payment control code.
The pay control code is used to group invoices together for payment, and it allows you to easily pay the subcontractors when you get paid by the owner.
When using [AP Payment Posting ](/en/vista/vista/accounting/accounts-payable/payments/ap-payment-forms/ap-payment-posting-form) or [AP Payment Workfile ](/en/vista/vista/accounting/accounts-payable/payments/ap-payment-forms/ap-payment-workfile-form), you can select the invoices that should be paid by payment control code, and all invoices that have the same payment control code are added to the payment work file.

## Use Job Billing to Initialize Invoice Amounts

Check this box to initialize invoice amounts for the subcontractor based on the quantities and/or percent complete entered in Job Billing.
If this box is not checked, all data entry fields will be set to zero.

## Beginning JC Co#

Specify the Job Cost company to begin the worksheet initialization with.

## Beginning Subcontract

Specify the beginning subcontract in a range of subcontracts to add to the worksheet.

## Ending JC Co#

Specify the Job Cost company to end the worksheet initialization with. The field defaults the JC company that you entered in the Beginning JC Co# field.

## Ending Subcontract

Specify the ending subcontract in a range of subcontracts to add to the worksheet. This field defaults the subcontract that you entered in the Beginning Contract field.
