---
title: "Creating Consolidated Notifications | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/creating-consolidated-notifications"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/creating-consolidated-notifications"
---

# Creating Consolidated Notifications

There are two kinds of notifications:

- Standard - When you create a standard Notifier job, the system
 sends an email for every record returned by the query.

- Consolidated - When you consolidate notifications, the system
 sends a single notification with multiple data records. This can reduce the emails
 generated by the system. The records are consolidated using the groupings set up
 using the Consolidation Groups tab on the WF Notifier Job Manager form.

Follow the steps below to create a consolidated notification.

1. Open the [WF Notifier Job Manager ](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-job-manager) form.

1. Select an existing Notifier Job or create a new one.

1. The query selected in the
 Query field is the query that will be used to create the
 notifications. [More](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-job-manager/field-definitions-wf-notifier-job-manager-form#ID-0004de06--en)

1. Check the
 Enable Task
 box. This activates the Notifier Job. [More](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-job-manager/field-definitions-wf-notifier-job-manager-form#ID-0004de1a--en)

1. Open the Info tab and use
 the Frequency section to select how often the notifications will be sent - for
 example if notifications should be sent every day, check the Daily box
 and select 1 in the Every: Day/s field.

1. Use the Daily Frequency section to set up how often on the selected days the notifications will be sent.

Example: Once a day, at night
If notifications should be sent at night after
 business hours, select 1 and Once in
 the Every
  fields and then enter a time in the Start Time field.
Example: Multiple times during business hours
If notifications should be sent out multiple times
 during the day during business hours, select 1 and Hour/s in
 the Every fields, and then enter your business hours in the Start
 Time and Stop Time fields. This means
 notifications will be sent once an hour during business hours.

1. Use the Email tab to create a plain text or rich text email.

Rich Text

1. Select Rich Text in the Format field.

1. Use the To, CC,
 and BCC fields to select who should receive the notifications.
 [More](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-job-manager/field-definitions-wf-notifier-job-manager-form#ID-0004de88--en)

1. Complete the Subject field.

1. In the Body section, place the cursor where the table should be added.

1. Click the Table button. This will open
 the [WF Notifier Table Layout ](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-table-layout) form.

1. Use the WF Notifier Table Layout form to add and format the table that will appear in the email. [More](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-table-layout)

1. Optional: To add email fields to the email, click
 the
 Email Fields button and use the form that displays to add
 parameters to the email. [More](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-email-parameters)

1. Complete the Body section of the email. To add blank
 lines between paragraphs, press Shift+Enter.

Plain Text

1. Select Plain in the Format field.

1. Use the To, CC,
 and BCC fields to select who should receive the notifications.
 [More](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-job-manager/field-definitions-wf-notifier-job-manager-form#ID-0004de88--en)

1. Check the Consolidated Notifications
 box. This enables the Line and Footer fields.

1. Complete the Subject, Header, Line, and Footer
  fields. In a consolidated notification, the text in the Header and Footer fields will display
 once, and the text in the Line field will display for
 each record returned by the Notifier Query. Press F1
 in any of these fields for detailed information.

1. Click the
  Email Fields
 button. This will open the [WF Notifier Email Parameters ](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-email-parameters) form, which displays a list of parameters from the query. You will use this form to add parameters to the fields on the Email tab.

1. Use the Consolidation Groups tab to define how the notifications will be consolidated. For example if you group by Reviewer when sending notifications for unapproved invoices, the system will create a separate email for each reviewer returned by the query. If you do not set any grouping criteria, the system sends a single notification for every record returned by the query.

1. Select a parameter to group by from the
 Email Fields
 column. The query selected in the Query field on the Info tab determines the grouping options that display.

1. Click the Add
 button to add the parameter to the grouping criteria.

1. Repeat the steps above to add more grouping criteria. Note: To remove a parameter from the grouping criteria, select the
 parameter and click the Remove button. The
 parameter returns to the  Email Fields column.

Related information

- [About Automated Notifications](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications)
