---
title: "WF Notifier Table Layout | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-table-layout"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-table-layout"
---

# WF Notifier Table Layout

You can use the WF Notifier Table Layout form to add a formatted table to a
 notification email.
This only applies when you are creating a rich
 text email notification (Rich Text is selected in the Format field on the
 Email tab of the [WF Notifier Job Manager ](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-job-manager) form), but it can be added to standard
 and consolidated notifications.
Follow the steps below to format a table in a
 rich text email.

1. Open a job in the [WF Notifier Job Manager ](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-job-manager) form.

1. Open the Email tab, select Rich Text
 in the Format drop down, and then
 click the Table button. The WF
 Notifier Table Layout form will display.

1. The Pivot Table box determines if you
 are creating a consolidated email, and it will change the format/orientation of the
 table that is created. Note: There are two kinds of notifications:

- Standard - When you
 create a standard Notifier job, the system sends an email for every
 record returned by the query.

- Consolidated - When you
 consolidate notifications, the system sends a single notification with
 multiple data records. This can reduce the emails generated by the
 system. The records are consolidated using the groupings set up using the
 Consolidation Groups tab on the WF Notifier Job Manager form.

When the Pivot Table box is not checked, you are creating a consolidated
 email notification.
The diagram below
 illustrates how the Pivot
 Table box changes the orientation of the table.
When the Pivot Table box is checked

> Header Row

Detail Row

When the Pivot Table box is not
 checked

> Header Row

Detail Row

Detail Row

Detail Row

1. Use the Border Style, Border Color, and Border Width fields to set the style, color,
 and thickness of the lines in the table.

1. Check the Show Header Row box if the
 header row should display in the table.

1. Use the fields in the Header Row section to set the background color and cell padding
 of the header row. The fields in this section only apply when the Show Header Row box is checked.

1. Use the fields in the Detail Row section to set the background color and cell padding
 of the detail rows.

1. Use the Columns tab to select which columns will display in the table, and the order of
 those columns.Use the Columns tab to select which
 columns will display in the table, and the order of those columns. Check the
 Include box next to each
 column that should be included in the table. Change the number in the Sequence column to change the order in
 which the columns display in the table.

1. Click Apply  when complete to add the
 table to the Body section on the WF Notifier Job Manager form.

1. Click Close  if the table appears to
 be correct. This will close the WF Notifier Table Layout form.

Related information

- [About Automated Notifications](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications)

- [WF Notifier Job Manager](/en/vista/vista/system-tools/work-flow/about-automated-notifications/wf-notifier-job-manager)
