---
title: "Enter an Invoice | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/spectrum/spectrum/accounting/accounts-receivable/spectrum-menus/data-entry-overview/customer-invoice-entry/enter-an-invoice"
fetched_at: "2026-04-03T20:05:26.860879+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/spectrum/spectrum/accounting/accounts-receivable/spectrum-menus/data-entry-overview/customer-invoice-entry/enter-an-invoice"
---

# Enter an Invoice

Use this procedure to enter invoices and credit memos that
 are not automatically generated by the software.

1. Enter the customer code for whom this invoice
 is being prepared. If the customer's status is set to Not
 used, no entry is allowed. Click the lookup icon to open the Customer screen to look up A/R
 information for a specific customer.

1. If this invoice is for a contract, enter a valid
 job number. The job
 description will display beneath the job number. If this invoice is not for a
 contract, press Enter to skip the job number. When entering
 the job, if there is an error message "RECORD NOT IN FILE CR.CNTR," this indicates
 the contract is not currently on file for this customer and job. To resolve this,
 click Cancel to exit the screen and then add the contract
 information using the Contract screen. If the cost centers feature is enabled, Spectrum
 will compare the cost center assigned to the job with cost centers in the operator's
 assigned scheme; if the job's cost center is not present, then invoice entry for that
 job will be disallowed.

1. Press Enter to display the next
 available invoice number.
 Otherwise, enter the invoice number for this transaction.

1. Select either Invoice or Credit memo from the
 Type drop-down menu.
 Positive numbers will always be entered on invoices and credit memos; the Invoice or
 Credit memo designation indicates whether the customer's account will be increased or
 decreased.

1. Enter the batch code, or double-click to
 select from a list of available batch codes. The batch code defaults to the Operator
 code.

1. Enter a G/L date. The corresponding fiscal year and period display to the
 right of this field. When a new G/L date is entered, it is validated against the
 Minimum/Maximum date settings and the current processing period settings in the
 A/R Processing Date Change screen. If the 'Invoice date
 must be in G/L period' checkbox is selected in the Accounts Receivable
 Installation > Properties screen, then the invoice date must be in the same fiscal period as the
 G/L date.

1. Enter an Invoice date. This date is validated against the Minimum/Maximum date
 settings and the current processing period settings (both from the
 Processing Date Change screen). Please refer to the
 Installation topics for more information on setting the default invoice date.

1. Enter the customer's purchase order number, if applicable.

1. Enter the quantity for this line item, if applicable. If a quantity is entered, the extension is calculated as the quantity multiplied by the unit price. If no quantity is entered, then the extension is entered by the operator.

1. Enter the description for this invoice line
 item. Enter an M for a message line and enter a message, or
 enter an asterisk (*) and a message code to use a standard message as entered in
 Item Description/Message Maintenance. If an equipment code
 has been entered, the equipment name from Equipment File
 Maintenance defaults.

1. If a quantity was entered, enter the unit of measure for this invoice line item. For example, include EA, LB, and so forth. If no quantity was entered, this field will be skipped.

1. If a quantity was entered, enter a unit price for this line item. If
 no quantity was entered, this field will be skipped. If an equipment code has been
 entered, the unit price defaults from the rental rate of the equipment from
 Equipment File Maintenance.

1. If the quantity and unit price were entered, the
 Extension field will be
 calculated and displayed automatically; no entry is required. If no quantity was
 entered, enter the total dollar amount for this line.

1. Enter the G/L account code. If the G/L code's
 status is set to Not used, no entry is allowed. At the G/L
 account field in the Invoice Detail portion of the screen,
 Spectrum will verify the cost center assigned to the G/L account code by comparing
 the entry to the list of allowed cost centers for that G/L account. Spectrum compares
 the G/L account's list of shared cost centers with cost centers in the operator's
 assigned scheme; if there are no common cost centers, then that G/L account code is
 not allowed. Validation is also performed if the operator attempts to change or
 delete an existing distribution line. In addition, the cost center assigned to the
 detail line must be valid for the G/L account code assigned to that line.

1. Select the Tax checkbox if this invoice is
 taxable. Otherwise, leave this checkbox clear if the invoice is not taxable. This
 information defaults from the Contracts if this is a job invoice.

1. The sum of the non-taxable and taxable line transactions for this invoice, the amount of sales tax and the invoice total including sales tax, and the retention portion of this invoice display in the Totals section.
