---
title: "Edit a Custom Template | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-creating-a-document-template/edit-a-custom-template"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-creating-a-document-template/edit-a-custom-template"
---

# Edit a Custom Template

Once you have copied a template, you can modify the merge and table merge fields of your new template to meet your specific needs.

To edit your custom template:

1. Select the standard template that you copied on the Grid tab of PM Create & Send Templates and open the Info tab.

1. The Template Name displays the name that will be used to select the template when using the [Create and Send ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-the-create-and-send-feature) feature. The template name was defined when the template was copied using [PM Copy Document Template ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-copy-document-template-form)Note: You cannot change the name of an existing template. Changing the value in this field will create a new, blank template.

1. The Location, Template File Name, Template Type, and Word Item Table fields will populate based on the template that was copied using PM Copy Document Template. You should not have to change any of these fields. For specific information on these fields, see: [Location ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form/field-definitions-pm-create-and-send-templates-form#ID-00025fd7--en), [Template File Name](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form/field-definitions-pm-create-and-send-templates-form#ID-00025ffc--en) , [Template Type ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form/field-definitions-pm-create-and-send-templates-form#ID-0002600d--en), or [Word Item Table ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form/field-definitions-pm-create-and-send-templates-form#ID-00026078--en).

1. Select the type of document you would like to create when using the [Create and Send ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-the-create-and-send-feature) feature with this template in the Type of Document to Create field.

1. Open the Merge Fields tab to view the merge fields included on the template. These fields were copied from the standard template, but you can add and remove fields to customize the document.

1. Add merge fields as needed.

1. Select a document object. Click in the Document Object field and press F4 to select a document object from a list. Each document object is a list of fields that you can add to the document - for example the Job Master document object includes general information about the project. The document objects that are available depends on the Template Type selected on the Info tab.Note: If you select a document object that is not already on the template, a message displays asking if you would like to add multiple columns from the selected document object to the template. Click Yes and the PM Column Selection form appears. Select the fields you would like to add to the template and then click Select to return to the PM Create & Send Templates form.

1. Select a field to add to the document. Click in the Column Name field and press F4 to select a field to include on the report. The list displays all of the fields included in the document object selected in the Document Project field. For example, if you selected the Our Firm document object, the shipping and mailing address fields of the firm display in the list.

1. Typically, the merge field name and merge order don't require changes. Press F1 on each field for specific information.

Note: Adding merge fields to a document template only makes the fields available to add to the actual document generated by the application. Before these fields will display on the actual document, you have to insert them into the body of the document using MS Word. That step is covered in [Edit the Project Document](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-generating--editing-project-documents/edit-the-project-document), which should be done once the document template is set up in PM Create & Send Templates.

1. Remove merge fields as needed.

1. Highlight a merge field line item on the Merge Fields tab.

1. Click the Delete icon.

Note: Removing a merge field from the document template will not remove the field label and field from the actual document generated by the application. In order to remove the field label and field from the actual document, you need to remove them from the body of the document using MS Word. That step is covered in [Edit the Project Document](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-generating--editing-project-documents/edit-the-project-document), which should be done once the document template is set up in the PM Create & Send Templates form.

1. (Optional) After you have edited the merge fields, reposition them using the Reorder Merge Columns button, which opens the PM Merge Column Order form.

1. Open the Table Merge Fields tab. The Table Merge Fields tab can be used to populate a table on the document with detailed information. For example, the Subcontract Item standard template includes a table that populates with subcontract detail items when the document is generated. The Table Merge Fields tab displays the fields used to populate the table on the template. Just like on the Merge Fields tab, you can add and remove fields to customize the document. The Table Merge Fields tab is only enabled when a template type that contains detail information is selected in the Template Type field on the Info tab.

1. Edit the Table Merge fields.Table merge fields and merge fields do not function the same way. Adding a field to the Merge Fields tab means that the field will be available to add to the document. Adding a field to the Table Merge Fields tab actually causes the field to populate in a table on the document. That means when you add or remove a detail item from the Table Merge Fields tab, you must also add or remove a column from the table on the actual document. That step is covered in [Edit the Project Document](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-generating--editing-project-documents/edit-the-project-document), which should be done once the document template is set up in the PM Create & Send Templates form.

1. Select a Document Object and Column Name.

1. The Merge Order field determines the order in which the detail information populates in the table on the document. Click here for more information.

1. The Format field determines the format that the data displays. More

1. Once you have edited the merge fields and table merge fields, click the Edit Template button to open the document template.

You can now edit the actual document associated with this template in MS Word by clicking the the Edit Template button. For more information, see [Customize a Template Using MS Word](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-creating-a-document-template/customize-a-template-using-ms-word).
