---
title: "About the PM Import Estimates Data Form | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/project-management/import-project-estimates/about-the-pm-import-estimates-data-form"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/project-management/import-project-estimates/about-the-pm-import-estimates-data-form"
---

# About the PM Import Estimates Data Form

This form can only be accessed by clicking the Import Data button on the PM Import Menu and is used to import raw data (text files generated by third-party software packages) into a temporary work file here in PM.
To import your text file, you must first specify the import template to
 use. Import templates are set up and defined in PM Import Templates and determine the format
 of the work file. It is important that you specify a template that is compatible with the
 third-party software you used to export your text file; otherwise, the data will be
 incorrectly formatted and an interface cannot occur.
Next, you will need to specify the text file to import. You can
 enter the import file manually (making sure to include the entire path) or use the Browse
 button to locate and select the appropriate file.
Note: If you are using a template that references the old HCSS import routine, you
 have the option to specify a second file for importing subcontract and material data. However,
 the HCSSHeavy import routine (which replaces the HCSS routine) uses the new format that does
 not require two text files; all data is contained in one text file.
You will also need to specify the Import ID into which the data
 will be loaded. If you specify an import ID that is already in use, the old data will be
 purged and replaced by the new data.
The Enter Default Retainage Percentage field
 allows you to specify the default retainage percentage you want assigned to contract items and
 subcontract detail. The percentage specified here will be used to calculate retainage for
 contract items and subcontract detail once data is interfaced to accounting.
When you are ready to import your data, click
 Import.
 Once the import process is complete, a message displays showing the total item, phase, cost
 type, material, and subcontract records imported, along with any errors found. If errors were
 found, you will need to use the PM Import Edit program (Edit Work Tables button) to correct
 the errors before uploading your data. If no errors were found, you can upload your data
 without having to review the work files. However, it is recommended that you review your
 import data to ensure your data is correct.
When importing items with no description using a
 template with the Import Item Code as Standard Item Code box checked and the Create Item Option
 set to S-Used Standard Item Code, the import will now use the description from JC Std Item
 Codes if one exists. If description does not exist or standard item code is not found,
 description will default as “Missing Description”.
[About the PM Import Estimates Edit Form](/en/vista/vista/project-management/import-project-estimates/about-the-pm-import-estimates-edit-form)
[About the PM Import Estimates Upload Form](/en/vista/vista/project-management/import-project-estimates/about-the-pm-import-estimates-upload-form)
