---
title: "About Agreement Covered Spot Work | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/service-management/work-orders/about-types-of-sm-work-orders/about-preventative-maintenance-work-orders/about-agreement-covered-spot-work"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/service-management/work-orders/about-types-of-sm-work-orders/about-preventative-maintenance-work-orders/about-agreement-covered-spot-work"
---

# About Agreement Covered Spot Work

If you have set up spot coverage on an agreement, you can have the costs incurred for unscheduled work covered by the agreement.
When you manually enter a work order for
 spot work, if the service site on the work order is set up on the Spot Coverage tab of
 an active agreement, the system automatically defaults that agreement on each scope
 added to the work order. If the service site is covered under more than one active
 agreement, you can use the F4 lookup to select the correct agreement for coverage.Note:
 Spot Coverage applies only to work order scopes with a Price Method of Time and
 Materials.

Once you begin capturing work completed
 (directly on a work order or via timesheets / timecards, purchase orders, or AP
 invoices), the system determines if the costs are covered based on the spot coverage
 defined for the service site (in SM Agreement Site Coverage Dtl).
For example, you set up Spot Coverage for
 Service Site A as follows:
SeqCall
 TypeLabor
 CoveredMaterial CoveredEquipment CoveredSubcontract CoveredMisc
 Covered
1CT1XXXXX
2CT2XXX
3X

You set up a work order for Service Site A,
 with three different scopes. The scopes are assigned call types as follows:

- Work Order Scope #1, Call Type: CT1

- Work Order Scope #2, Call Type: CT2

- Work Order Scope #3, Call Type: CT3

You enter a work completed labor line for
 Scope #1. Both the call type and labor are covered under the agreement, so the line's
 Non-Billable checkbox is selected and no billable amounts are
 calculated.
You then enter an equipment line for Scope
 #2. Although a coverage entry exists for call type CT2, equipment costs are not covered.
 Therefore, the line's Non-Billable checkbox is not selected and billable amounts are calculated
 based on either the rate template for the agreement or the rate template for the work
 order scope, depending on how you set the Agreement Rates checkbox.
Finally, you enter an Inventory line for Scope #3. No coverage
 entry exists for call type CT3; however, there is an entry for material coverage not
 restricted by call type, so the inventory line is covered. Therefore, the line's
 Non-Billable checkbox is selected and no billable amounts are
 calculated.

## Work Completed Miscellaneous
 Lines

For work completed miscellaneous lines,
 the system determines agreement coverage as follows:

- Cost Type with CT Category of Other - If you select the
 Misc
 Covered checkbox for the agreement/service site, the line is
 flagged as non-billable. If you select the Misc Covered checkbox, but do
 not enter a cost type, the line is treated as an Other cost and is flagged as
 non-billable.

- Cost Type with CT Category of Labor, Equipment, Material, or
 Subcontract - The line is covered if the corresponding cost type category is
 selected for the agreement/service site (e.g. if cost type category is Labor,
 the Labor Covered checkbox must be selected).

Miscellaneous lines generated by an AP
 invoice line (in AP Transaction Entry) also use the cost type to determine coverage
 as defined above. If the invoice line does not reference a cost type, it is treated
 as an Other cost type. However, if you entered a material for the line, it is
 treated as a material cost type.

## Work Completed Labor Generated from Timecards/Timesheets

If you post a timecard or timesheet to
 an SM work order and labor is covered for the agreement/ service site on the work
 order, the resulting work completed line is flagged as Non-Billable.
If you post a timecard that includes
 equipment, the system generates a labor work completed line and an equipment work
 completed line. If coverage is defined for both labor and equipment, both lines are
 flagged as Non-Billable. If coverage is defined for only one of the cost type
 categories (for example, labor), then only the line that is covered is flagged as
 non-billable. The line that is not covered is considered billable and will have
 billable amounts calculated based on the rate template for the agreement or the rate
 template for the work order scope (depending on how you set the Agreement
 Rates checkbox).

## Work Completed Purchase Lines

The system determines agreement coverage
 for work completed purchase lines on a work order as follows:

-  If a material is entered for the purchase order item, it is
 treated as a material cost type. This is true whether you specify a non-material
 cost type or don't specify a cost type at all. If materials are covered, the
 resulting work completed purchase line is flagged as non-billable.

- If you do not specify a material, coverage is determined by
 the cost type entered for the purchase order item. For example, if you enter a
 labor-related cost type and labor is covered by the agreement, the resulting
 work completed purchase line is flagged as non-billable

Related information

- [Define Spot Work Coverage on an Agreement](/en/vista/vista/service-management/agreements/agreement-setupmaintenance/agreement-setup/define-spot-work-coverage-on-an-agreement)

- [SM Agreement Site Coverage Dtl Form](/en/vista/vista/service-management/agreements/agreement-setupmaintenance/service-management-agreements-forms/sm-agreement-site-coverage-dtl-form)

- [SM Work Orders Form](/en/vista/vista/service-management/work-orders/service-management-work-order-forms/sm-work-orders-form)
