---
title: "PO Initialization Form | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/costs-and-contracts/purchase-order/purchase-order-entry/po-purchase-order-entry-forms/po-initialization-form"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/costs-and-contracts/purchase-order/purchase-order-entry/po-purchase-order-entry-forms/po-initialization-form"
---

# PO Initialization Form

Use this form to create purchase orders from requisition lines.
The initialization process selects
 requisition lines based on specified criteria, and then creates a PO batch. The PO batch
 may contain one or more PO headers, each with one or more PO items. Requisition lines
 with the same vendor and shipping address will be grouped together on the same PO. However, requisition lines are not grouped together on purchase order items; each
 requisition line will create one purchase order item.
Requisition lines will only be initialized
 onto a purchase order if they meet the specified criteria and have a line status of Approved for
 Purchase .

## Creating POs Based on Selection Criteria

You can use specific criteria to select requisition lines for initialization to a purchase order. The more criteria you enter, the more restrictive the selection will be.
Because requisition lines can be of differing line types, some of the
 selection options cannot be used together. For example, you cannot restrict by IN
 Company/IN Location and JC Company/Job, as no requisition line would ever reference the
 specified IN Company, IN Location, JC Company, and Job.

## Populate PO Batch

Use this section to specify what information to use when generating the PO batch. For example, the
 PO Header
 Desc
 field allows you to specify what description will default for each purchase
 order header generated during initialization. The default description is 'PO created
 from RQ', which easily identifies the source of the purchase orders once the batch is
 accessed in PO. However, you can override the description or leave it blank as desired.
 The description can also be overridden by purchase order in PO Purchase Order Entry.
Additionally, you can specify the starting PO# for numbering purchase orders generated by initialization.
 The initial default depends on the
 Automatically Generate PO #'s
 checkbox in PO Company Parameters. If selected, the default is based
 on the
 Last Used PO
 #
 in the company file, plus one. If you are not
 using the 'auto-generate' feature, the default will be the next highest sequential
 number in the system (ignoring all alpha and alphanumeric numbers). Defaults can be
 overridden.
If you want to receive POs in the PO module (via PO Receipts Entry), you will need to select the
 Receiving
 checkbox. If this checkbox is not selected, you can still received POs in the AP module.
Once you have successfully initialized a PO batch,
 a message displays indicating the PO company, batch month, and batch ID. You can then
 access the batch in PO Purchase Order Entry and edit the purchase orders/items as
 necessary.

Related information

- [PO Purchase Order Entry Form](/en/vista/vista/costs-and-contracts/purchase-order/purchase-order-entry/po-purchase-order-entry-forms/po-purchase-order-entry-form)
