---
title: "PM Create & Send Templates Form | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form"
---

# PM Create & Send Templates Form

Use this form to modify document templates.
Document templates are used by the [Create and Send - Overview](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-the-create-and-send-feature) feature to create RFI's,
 RFQ's, and other documents in the PM module.
Tasks
Create a new document template
Click [here](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-creating-a-document-template) for information on creating a new document template.
Modify a template
Follow the steps below to customize a document template.
You cannot modify standard templates, but you can create a copy of a standard template using [PM Copy Document Template ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-copy-document-template-form) and then customize it using this form. For example, you can copy the standard RFI template provided with the application and then modify the copy to create your own RFI document. Click [here](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-creating-a-document-template) for information on creating a new document template.

1. Select the standard template that you copied on the Grid tab of PM Create & Send Templates and open the Info tab.

1. The Template Name displays the name that will be used to select the template when using the [Create and Send ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-the-create-and-send-feature) feature. The template name was defined when the template was copied using [PM Copy Document Template ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-copy-document-template-form).
Note:You cannot change the name of an existing template. Changing the value in this field will create a new, blank template.

1. The Location, Template File Name, Template Type, and Word Item Table fields will populate based on the template that was copied using PM Copy Document Template. You should not have to change any of these fields. For specific information on these fields, see: [Location ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form/field-definitions-pm-create-and-send-templates-form#ID-00025fd7--en), [Template File Name](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form/field-definitions-pm-create-and-send-templates-form#ID-00025ffc--en) , [Template Type ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form/field-definitions-pm-create-and-send-templates-form#ID-0002600d--en), or [Word Item Table ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form/field-definitions-pm-create-and-send-templates-form#ID-00026078--en).

1. Select the type of document you would like to create when using the [Create and Send ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-the-create-and-send-feature) feature with this template in the Type of Document to Create field.

1. Open the Merge Fields tab to view the merge fields included on the template. These fields were copied from the standard template, but you can add and remove fields to customize the document.

1. Add or remove merge fields. Each entry on the Merge Fields tab represents a merge field that can be included on the document - for example if this is an Invitation to Bid document the job site street address, city, and state will each display as a separate line on the tab.

1. Add Merge Fields
Adding merge fields to a document template only makes the fields available to add to the actual document generated by the application. Before these fields will display on the actual document, you have to insert them into the body of the document using MS Word. That step is covered in PM Editing the Document Template, which should be done once the document template is set up in PM Create & Send Templates.

1. Select a document object. Click in the Document
 Object field and press F4 to select a document object from a list.
 Each document object is a list of fields that you can add to the
 document - for example the Job Master document object includes
 general information about the project. The document objects that are
 available depends on the Template Type selected on the Info tab. If
 you select a document object that is not already on the template, a
 message will display asking if you would like to add multiple
 columns from the selected document object to the template.
 ClickYes and [PM Column Selection ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-column-selection-form) will appear.
 Select the fields you would like to add to the template and then
 click Select to return to PM Create & Send Templates. Click
 [here](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-column-selection-form) for more information on PM
 Column Selection.

1. Select a field to add to the document. Click in the
 Column Name field
 and press F4 to select a field to include on the report. The list
 will display all of the fields included in the document object
 selected in the Document Project
 field. For example, if you selected the Our Firm document object,
 the shipping and mailing address fields of the firm will display in
 the list.

1. Typically, you won't have to change the merge field name or merge order. Refer to the field help for more information on: [Merge Field Name](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form/field-definitions-pm-create-and-send-templates-form#ID-000260b7--en) or [Merge Order](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form/field-definitions-pm-create-and-send-templates-form#ID-000260c7--en).

Remove Merge Fields
Removing a merge field from the document template will not remove the field label and field from the actual document generated by the application. In order to remove the field label and field from the actual document, you need to remove them from the body of the document using MS Word. That step is covered in PM Editing the Document Template, which should be done once the document template is set up in PM Create & Send Templates.

1. Highlight a merge field line item on the Merge Fields tab.

1. Click the Delete icon.

1. After you have edited the merge fields, you can reposition them using the Reorder Merge Columns button, which will open [PM Merge Column Order ](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-merge-column-order-form). This is an optional step. Click [here](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-merge-column-order-form) for more information on PM Merge Column Order.

1. Open the Table Merge Fields tab. The Table Merge Fields tab can be used to populate a table on the document with detailed information. For example, the Subcontract Item standard template includes a table that populates with subcontract detail items when the document is generated. The Table Merge Fields tab displays the fields that will be used to populate the table on the template. Just like on the Merge Fields tab, you can add and remove fields to customize the document. The Table Merge Fields tab is only enabled when a template type that contains detail information is selected in the Template Type field on the Info tab.

1. Edit the Table Merge Fields
Table merge fields and merge fields do not function the same way. Adding a field to the Merge Fields tab means that the field will be available to add to the document. Adding a field to the Table Merge Fields tab actually means the field will populate in a table on the document. That means when you add or remove a detail item from the Table Merge Fields tab, you must also add or remove a column from the table on the actual document. That step will be covered in Editing a Document Template, which should be done once the document template is set up.

1. Select a Document Object and Column Name.

1. The Merge Order field determines the order in which the detail information will populate in the table on the document. Click [here](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form/field-definitions-pm-create-and-send-templates-form#ID-0002610a--en) for more information.

1. The Format field determines the format that the data will display. [More](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-create--send-templates-form/field-definitions-pm-create-and-send-templates-form#ID-000261a9--en)

1. Once you have edited the merge fields and table merge fields, edit the document template using MS Word document. Click the Edit Template button to open the document template in MS Word.

Initialize Fields Button
Click Initialize Fields button to add merge fields to the template using the fields on a existing template. This will open [PM Select Document Template](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-select-document-template-form). Click [here](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-select-document-template-form) for more information about this form.
Reorder Merge Columns Button
Click the Reorder Merge Columns button to
 change the order of the merge fields and table merge fields on a document template.
 This will open PM Merge Columns Order. Click [here](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-merge-column-order-form) for more
 information.
Edit Template Button
Click the Edit Template button to edit the selected template.
Additional Information
Copy a document template
Select File >  Copy
 Document Template from the toolbar at the top of the form to copy a document template.
 [More](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-copy-document-template-form)
Pre-Construction Module document templates
This form is also used to customize Pre-Construction
 module document templates, and set up an Invitation to Bid automated response form.
 Click [here](/en/vista/vista/costs-and-contracts/pre-construction/pc-create-and-send/about-automated-response-forms) for information on PC module automated
 response forms.
Related Information
[](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-creating-a-document-template)Overview: Create a new document template
[](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-copy-document-template-form)PM Document Template Copy
[](/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/about-the-create-and-send-feature)Overview - PM Create and Send
