---
title: "Interface a New Project or Project Items | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/project-management/setupmaintenance/interface-a-new-project-or-project-items"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/project-management/setupmaintenance/interface-a-new-project-or-project-items"
---

# Interface a New Project or Project Items

You can interface new project or project items, such as
 subcontracts, purchase orders, and change orders, using the PM Interface form.
If you are interfacing a new project, the project status
 will change from pending to active, the Job Cost module will be updated with the job
 information and original estimates defined on the project phases, and accounting can
 begin processing transactions on the project.

1. Open the PM Interface
 form.

1. Enter a project number
 in the Project field or press F4 to select one from a
 list.

1. All of the items that
 are ready to be interfaced on the selected project will display in the
 form.

1. Use the Item
 Type and Keyword fields to filter the
 items that display. For example if you want to interface a specific subcontract,
 select Subcontract in the Item Type drop down and only
 the subcontracts associated with the project will display in the form.

1. Check the Interface box next to each item that should be interfaced. Only
 items that display in the grid and have the Interface box checked will be
 interfaced. You can also use the Select All and Deselect
 All buttons to check or uncheck the Interface box next to all of the items that display in the
 form.Note: If you select an approved change order that has
 attachments, the attachments will update to the Job Cost module. If you
 interface the change order again, the attachments will not be updated in the
 JC module even if they have been updated, added, or deleted in the PM
 module.

1. Enter the post date and
 year into the Month field.

1. Click the Validate button once all of the items that you would like to
 interface have been selected.

1. Validating the data will
 generate the audit reports. A check will display next to each audit report
 generated by the validation. If a report is disabled, the report does not apply
 to the information being interfaced. Uncheck the box next to any report that you
 don't want to view and then click the Preview or Print button. Note: If there are errors associated with the
 items that are being interfaced, an error list will be created. The error
 list displays the missing or incorrect information and the form that should
 be used to correct the error.

1. Use the audit reports to
 verify that the information being interfaced is correct. Click the Clear
  button if you want to return to the item selection. For example, if
 you preview the audit reports and realize that you should have included another
 item, click the Clear button, select the
 additional item, and the click the Validation button again to
 the regenerate the audit reports. Important: The audit reports are not available
 after the information has been interfaced, so you should print or preview
 them before you click the Interface button.

1. Click the Interface button to interface the information. A message box
 will appear if the interface is successful.

1. Click the Close button to close the form or repeat the steps above to
 interface more information.

Related concepts

- [PM Interface Form](/en/vista/vista/project-management/setupmaintenance/pm-interface-form)
