---
title: "About Saving, Viewing, or Attaching the Document | Trimble Help"
source_url: "https://help.trimble.com/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-send-documents-form/about-saving-viewing-or-attaching-the-document"
fetched_at: "2026-03-25T16:24:33.094126+00:00"
menu_path: "/en/vista/vista/project-management/create-and-send/pm-send-documents-form/about-saving-viewing-or-attaching-the-document"
---

# About Saving, Viewing, or Attaching the Document

There are several options in the Tasks drop down at the top
 of the PM Send Documents form.

- Save Document As - Generate and save a PDF document.

- Attach to source - Generate a PDF and attachment it to the
 source record. The source record is the record that was used to launch the PM
 Send Documents form. For example if you select a submittal in the PM Submittal
 Register form and then launch the PM Send Document form, the submittal that you
 selected on the PM Submittal Register form is the source record.

- View Document - Generate and view a PDF document.

- When Collate into single PDF document is checked - The
 Collate into single PDF document box on the Documents tab of
 the PM Send Documents form determines what is included in the PDF generated by
 the Save
 Document As, Attach Document To Source,
 and View
 Document options. When it is checked, all of the documents and
 reports on the Documents tab of the PM Send Documents form are generated and
 compiled into a single PDF. The attachments selected on the Attachments tab of
 the PM Send Documents form are also included in the PDF unless they are set up
 as standalone attachments using the Document Builder (Doc
 Builder button on the Documents tab). Note: To set up an attachment as a standalone, click on the
 Doc Builder button on the Documents tab of the PM Send
 Documents form. This will open the PM Send Document Builder form. Open the
 Document Order tab, and then drag and drop the attachment down to the
 Standalone Attachments section.

- When Collate into a single PDF document is not checked - When
 the Collate into single PDF document box is not checked, only the
 document or report that is selected on the Documents tab of the PM Send
 Documents form is included in the PDF. The attachments selected on the
 Attachments tab of the PM Send Documents form that are associated with the
 document or report are also included in the PDF unless they are set up as
 standalone attachments using the Document Builder (Doc
 Builder button on the Documents tab).
